----------------------------------------------------------------------
:BEIRUT RESTAURANT

Information asymmetry has benefit restaurants for a long time,
particularly in touristic destinations.

According to information asymmetry, when one party of a transaction
has better information than the other, it creates an imbalance in
power. The restaurant knows far more about the service it provides
that its customer.

For that reason we like and read reviews. The Internet has provided a
medium that distributes reviews (formal and informal) at a speed that
was unimaginable few years ago. Now it takes few days to spread the
word that a new restaurant is "good" or "bad" according to the
opinions of the first who go in and decide to write about it.

My intuition is that the turnaround cycle of some restaurants will be
faster: bad reviews will overwhelm the opinion of a restaurant, and
sink it fast, unless the restaurant is capable, and willing, to
correct course fast.

Beirut Restaurant is a case in point. Urbanspoon is perhaps the most
comprehensive site of food reviews for Victoria. Even though Beirut is
new, it has significantly more reviews that many well established
restaurants. And that is where the problem lies.

<a
href="http://www.urbanspoon.com/r/317/1534813/restaurant/Beirut-Restaurant-Victoria">Take
a look its reviews</a>. Pay particular attention to the number of
reviews that each of the reviewers has written. There are 11 reviews,
the top 6 are all written by people who have reviewed only one
restaurant. The restaurant is less than 2 weeks old, and yet, some of
those reviewers claim to have been there three times. I am suspicious.

On the other hand, one of those last six reviewers was negative. And
this is precisely the problem that new restaurants face today: a
disgruntled customer writes a bad review about a bad experience---to
which such consumer is totally entitled. This review is read by many
people who are borderline on whether to visit or not, tilting the
balance against the restaurant. After all, why go to a place where we
might have a bad experience when there are so many that we know will
give us a good one?

There is, however, one aspect that I support in many of those 1-time
reviewers: a new restaurant needs feedback. If you go there and you do
not like the food, tell them. It will do nothing for your meal, but it
might be the difference for the future of a restaurant. And if the
restaurant adjusts and improves, we all win: its owner, its employees,
and we, those we one day might decide to thorough its doors.

Hopefully Beirut will learn from its first customers, and survive this
difficult beginning.  Victoria needs Middle East restaurants.

----------------------------------------------------------------------






